I'm J on time we are VI MTV velocities
in music today we're gonna do a request
which is also a throwback one that we
probably need to have gotten to anyways
but because our friend Brandon requested
this album for winning the glove game if
you haven't seen that just soup search
our YouTube channel for Tom's display of
the glove game because that's hilarious
Brandon requested built two spills
perfect from now on which I have to
admit has been a record I've loved for a
long long time I actually picked it up
when I was in downtown Chicago and in
high school and then so ever since then
so years and years I've been listening
to this album and and at times I listen
to it a lot at times I don't but it's
always kind of been there for me so
getting to pick it up and review it for
this for this show it has been kind of a
fun experience yeah yeah I mean it's a
great request Thank You Brandon yeah and
we kind of just do it together in the
past couple days so I'm not exciting but
I know that both of us have listened to
it for years listen to it I want you to
get this on vinyl cuz I bet this an
awesome yeah um built this bill is an
indie rock band this is their third
album perfect from now on it came out in
1997 so it would only had to compete
with bands like blur and Radiohead
really good albums that came out 1997
also Yolo tango yeah a good point and
and this album did I think more for
indie rock than a lot of other albums
that came out in in that era it's pretty
underappreciated it really better
reasons really scuzzy I mean if you
think about it bands like modest mouse
bands like Death Cab amine parade
Wulfric even even Arcade Fire clearly
got influence from Built to Spill in
there and they're very unique writing
style because this album is kind of you
know it's it's been so influential in
the in the 14/15 you know almost 16
years about 15 years since it came out
that that you know it's kind of like
what did they do what was their secret
formula all these songs are is just
guitar with some distortion on just that
you know
indie guitar and in and bass & Drums in
a vocalist with kind of a false Sela
falsetto is really interesting voice
that's all it is and then some 1997
production dress ups and for whatever
reason the way that they composed these
songs was so groundbreaking that that
all these other bands are emulating this
or bands like Built to Spill in this
style and and I think it's just it comes
down to just fantastic song right oh
yeah this is an 8-track album and and I
feel like there's a lot more content on
here than just a tracks yeah well
because the songs are so long and they
go so many places they're not long
without reason right that's what I love
about this and that's what keeps it
engaging and and for the indie scene I
mean well you know I wasn't really big
into the indie scene in 1997 but now
going back to them and listening to a
lot of the albums that were that were
coming out then and really setting up
today's indie scene what's interesting
about this is that a lot of what was
considered in the indie pop in the rock
and even today was carried that formula
is that a lot of them are very focused
songs you know generally three to four
minutes is laying a lot of focus on
structure where they'll go and save a
lot of the indie aspects comes from just
some some strange eccentricity that
maybe the vocalist has to offer the
guitar and then some kind of a low five
production sound but what I like about
this is that I mean it's a little low
fly but it's not ridiculously so and
there really aren't any just gimmicky
quirks in it it's just good songwriting
that the songs evolved and they just
they snowball up into these ins goes in
that song do it again and that what a
great formula did you know that they
actually had to record this album three
different times really yeah they lost
the first two or one I like the like the
tapes cuz this is 97 the tapes got
ruined and it's not it's not like 2011
where it just gets uploaded into the
cloud and then it's forever on the
interwebs not like that then you know so
the first two recordings that this got
destroyed somehow and they kept pushing
if I recorded it and I'm really
yeah and I suppose by that point you
know you know the songs so well and and
you can tell that they do here I mean I
didn't know that but you can just tell
they have a mastery of any song it
sounds like they know exactly what
they're doing and why they're doing and
and that's something that I love hearing
when I listen to an album one of the
other things about the songwriting that
I notice is that they really know how to
use the the songwriting trick of the
rest you know yeah in the middle of a
chorus they'll take a second and just
not play a note you know or where
they'll play arrange the parts of that
there's a space in between that these
two guitar lines and and and and that
draws the listeners attention in and
says listen to me you know that that
contrast is so important in any and any
song or any album you have to have that
and I think that they do a good job and
I also just want to say that track four
made up dreams I think is one of the
best songs I've ever heard I've been in
love with this track for years and years
now I just can't get enough of it so
what are you sitting at for a score I'm
gonna go 87 87 I didn't really like this
yep I'm at an 89 I think that that's
that's where this is at for me and I
think that if I really were to have you
know I think part of the reason why it's
it's a high score for me it's just I've
been with this album for so long I think
he would develop personal relationships
without oh yeah yeah and maybe over time
that would go up because of that but I'm
interested to see what you guys think so
leave me atomic comment at our velocity
music calm or youtube.com slash
velocities in music also tell us what
you thought about it on our Facebook or
YouTube channel or in our Twitter feed
because that's really where we do all of
our talking I'm Jake I'm Tom and we are
VI MTV movie music critique forward